
Hello, this is machine learning lecture number one.
Machine learning it's already everywhere.
So it is a topic that you should know something about.
For example, if you type in a search query on the web,
how that query is interpreted, how the websites that you're
looking for are interpreted, and how the match between the two
is made, all of this is run by machine learning algorithms.
If you look at movie recommendations provided
to you, they are provided to you by machine learning algorithms
exploiting your previous experience with the site.
Going a step further, automated systems
like Amazon Alexa, the Google Assistant, or Siri,
they all run on top of machine learning algorithms.
Machine learning is used to interpret speeds
to natural languages, how the natural language
itself is interpreted, how its mapped to content that you're
looking for, or the commands that you
are interested in executing.
Machine learning is regularly used for image analysis.
For example, in a self-driving vehicle,
the unfolding scene coming from camera input
is interpreted by machine learning algorithms.
Machine learning has also achieved
several benchmark tests, for example,
surpassing human level performance in game playing,
such as game of Go recently.
Machine learning is being adopted
by different disciplines, for example biology, chemistry,
physics, and so on.
So it is everywhere.
And we need to understand what it is
and how to make use of it.

So let's start by defining exactly
what machine learning is.
As a discipline, it aims to design, understand, and apply
computer programs that really learn from experience, OK?
There are many ways to learn or many reasons to learn.
You can try to model, understand how things work.
You can try to predict about, say, future outcomes
or try to control towards a desired output configuration.
We will start by focusing on prediction as a core machine
learning task.
So let's take a few examples to understand what this actually
is.
You can make predictions about future events.
So for example, you may have a market value of a stock
measured as a function of time.
And you see some historical behavior of that stock.
And you wish to predict what happens next day.
In a similar vein, in a self-driving vehicle,
you can try to predict whether a collision is about to happen.
In a medical context, you might predict
the risk of acquiring or getting a recurrence for a disease
and so on.
There are many problems that machine learning algorithms
can help you to predict about future events.

Now, there are other types of predictions that you can make,
not only about events that are about to occur
but about properties you do not yet know.
For example, I can take a movie and ask whether you
would like this movie.
That is a prediction of a property
of a movie, whether you like it or not,
that I can learn to predict.
I can ask about molecules, whether a molecule here
is soluble in water or another substance.
It is a property that I can learn to predict.
I can learn to predict properties about images.
What is the content in the image, a category that
should be associated with the image,
that it's about mushrooms?
In a more structured way, I can also turn machine translation
into this form.
I can take a sentence in English and ask,
what is the corresponding sentence in Spanish?