So in this unit, we will cover unsupervised learning.
At first, the idea of unsupervised learning
sounds totally counterintuitive.
Because now we don't have any labels.
How do we know the machine actually learns anything?
In contrast to the supervised learning
that we covered so far in the class, where
we have really clear objectives that we are trying to optimize.
Now, we will kind of re-think this question,
of what does it mean to find structure in the data?
And I should say that in daily life,
we use a lot of type of unsupervised learning.
For instance, if you are looking at stories
that you read everyday at Google News,
you would see that a machine can automatically
cluster different stories written about the same event.
So it does introduce to us a structure over the whole stream
of the news.
So we will start by looking at a hard assignment clustering
algorithm.
Where we assume that a point, or a news story,
can just belong to a single cluster.
We'll provide the algorithm with an idea of similarity
between points, and ask it to find
the best possible arrangement to cluster these points.
Next, we will move to more exciting representation
of the data structure.
Because many times, it's actually pretty hard for us
to say at this point, that this news story really
belongs to this class.
You know, maybe it belongs to several clusters,
depending on how we structure the data.
So a much richer way to think about structure
is to think about it in probabilistic terms,
by just looking at different classes of data,
different components of data.
Or looking at the likelihood a certain point
was generated by that component.
And we will introduce generative model,
which provide you the probability
distribution over the points.
We will look at multinomials, Gaussian
and mixture of Gaussians.
And by the end of this unit, we will
get to a very powerful unsupervised learning algorithm
for uncovering then, the line structure, which
is called the M. You will have a chance to practice what you
learn in this unit in your project, which
has a lot of practical application on Netflix
recommendation system, using both clustering and the M.
